README.md, before:

<p align="center">
    <img src="media/geek-life-logo.png" align="center" alt="Geek-life Logo">
</p>
<h1 align="center"> The CLI To-Do List / Task Manager for Geeks </h1>

<a href="https://www.producthunt.com/posts/geek-life?utm_source=badge-featured&utm_medium=badge&utm_souce=badge-geek-life" target="_blank"><img src="https://api.producthunt.com/widgets/embed-image/v1/featured.svg?post_id=205655&theme=light" alt="Geek-life - The To-do List / Task Manager for Geeks in command line! | Product Hunt Embed" style="width: 125px; height: 27px;" width="125px" height="27px" /></a>
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/ajaxray/geek-life?version=latest)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/ajaxray/geek-life)

:technologist: Developer / DevOps / Sysadmin? A command line hero?     
:computer: Live with the dark terminal?  
:memo: Think in Markdown?  

**Finally!** A full featured task manager for YOU! 

![Geek-life overview](media/geek-life_v1_static.png "Geek-life overview")
<a href="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ajaxray/geek-life/master/media/geek-life_v1.gif" target="_blank">Click to see it moving (GIF)</a>
 

### :crystal_ball: Highlights

- For ninjas - do things faster with keyboard shortcuts
- Markdown lovers, feel at :house:! You'll see markdown everywhere.
- Full featured (almost) - Projects, Tasks, due-dates, task notes...
- A <4MB app that takes <1% CPU and ~7MB memory <sup>1</sup> - how much lighter you can think?
- Task note editor with markdown syntax highlighting<sup>2</sup>
- Full mouse support

### :dart: Roadmap
- [x] Create Project
- [x] Delete Project
- [ ] Edit Project
- [x] Create Task (under project)
- [x] Set Task due date (as `yyyy-mm-dd`) with shortcut
- [x] Set Task due date with quick input buttons (today, +1 day, -1 day)
- [x] Update Task Title
- [x] Tasklist items should indicate status (done, pending, overdue) using colors 
- [x] Export Tasks (Copy title, dueDate and description to clipboard as Markdown)
- [ ] Pin Tasks
- [x] Shortcut for Adding new Project and Task
- [x] Global shortcuts for jumping to Projects or Tasks panel anytime
- [x] Cleanup all completed tasks of project
- [x] Task note editor should syntax highlight (markdown) and line numbers  
- [x] Status bar for common shortcuts
- [x] Status bar should display success/error message of actions
- [x] Status bar may display quick tips based on focused element
- [x] Dynamic lists 
    - Today - Due Today and overdue 
    - Tomorrow 
    - Upcoming - Due in next 7 days
    - Unscheduled - tasks without due date
- [ ] Integrations
    - todo.txt (coming soon...)
    - Google Tasks 
    - (Share your ideas)
- [ ] Time tracking

### :rocket: Ready for action (installing and running)

It's just a single binary file, **no external dependencies**. 
Just download the appropriate version of [executable from latest release](https://github.com/ajaxray/geek-life/releases) for your OS. 
Then rename and give it permission to execute.   
For example:
```bash
mv geek-life_linux-amd64 geek-life  
sudo chmod +x geek-life
./geek-life
```

I recommend installing it globally (to run from any directory of your system). It's easy, just put it in your systems $PATH directory.
```bash
sudo mv geek-life /usr/local/bin/geek-life
geek-life
```

Done! *Manage your tasks your way!* 

## :keyboard: Keyboard shortcuts

Shortcut key for a pane/element will be **marked with underline**.

Some shortcuts are global, some are contextual. 
Contextual shortcuts will be applied according to focused pane/element.  
You'll see a currently focused pane bordered with double line. 
 

In case writing in a text input (e,g, new project/task, due date), you have to `Enter` to submit/save. 

| Context            | Shortcut            | Action                                               |
| ---                | :---:               | ---                                                  |
| Global             | `p`                 | Go to Project list                                   |
| Global             | `t`                 | Go to Task list                                      |
| Projects           | `n`                 | New Project                                          |
| Projects           | `↑`/`k`/`Shift+Tab` | Go up in project list                                |
| Projects           | `↓`/`j`/`Tab`       | Go down in project list                              |
| Tasks              | `n`                 | New Task                                             |
| Tasks              | `Esc`/`h`           | Go back to Projects Pane                             |
| Tasks              | `↑`/`k`/`Shift+Tab` | Go up in task list                                   |
| Tasks              | `↓`/`j`/`Tab`       | Go down in task list                                 |
| Tasks              | `c`                 | Clear completed tasks                                |
| Tasks              | `d`                 | Delete Project                                       |
| Task Detail        | `Esc`/`h`           | Go back to Tasks Pane                                |
| Task Detail        | `Space`             | Toggle task as done/pending                          |
| Task Detail        | `d`                 | Set Due date                                         |
| Task Detail        | `o`                 | Set Due date to today                                |
| Task Detail        | `+`                 | Due date plus 1                                      |
| Task Detail        | `-`                 | Due date minus 1                                     |
| Task Detail        | `↓`/`↑`             | Scroll Up/Down the note editor                       |
| Task Detail        | `e`                 | Activate note editor for modification                |
| Task Detail        | `v`                 | Edit task details in external editor (default `vim`) |
| Task Detail        | `r`                 | Rename Task Title                                    |
| Task Detail        | `x`                 | Export Task to clipboard                             |
| Active Note Editor | `Esc`               | Deactivate note editor and save content              |

**Tips about using shortcuts efficiently:**  

The interface has 3 primary panels
1. [**P**]rojects/Task lists
2. [**T**]asks of selected project or Tasklist
3. [**D**]etails/actions of selected Project or Task

The following diagram shows navigation shortcuts between the panels.
```
+------+----------------------+-----------------------+
|  P   |         T            |         D             |
|      |                      |                       |
|    Entr=>    ↓   ↑        Entr=>                    |
|      |       /   /          |                       |
|   <=Esc      j   k        <=Esc                     |
|      |                      |                       |
+------+----------------------+-----------------------+
```

So, what it's trying to visualize is -
- Selecting an item with `Enter` will move you to right panel. That means - 
    - Selecting a Project will load it's tasks and move to Tasks panel
    - Selecting a Task will load task detail and move to Detail panel
- Use `Esc` to move back to left panel. From Details to Tasks to Projects.
- To navigate a list (Project list or Task list), 
    - Use `↓` or `j` or `Tab` to go down
    - Use `↑` or `k` or `Shift+Tab` to go up  

Some More hints:
- If you are a vim user, think like -`j`/`k` for up/down list and `h` for go left 
- Think `Esc` as a "step back" - to previous pane in most cases.
- When you're in a list (Projects or Tasks), `Enter` will load currently selected item.
- After creating new Project, focus will automatically move to Tasks. Start adding tasks immediately by pressing `n`.   
- After creating new Task, focus will stay in "new task" input. So that you can add tasks quickly one after another. 
- After creating new Task, Press `Esc` when you're done creating tasks. 

## :hammer_and_wrench: Building blocks

- Made with :heart: and [golang](https://golang.org/) 1.14 *(you don't need golang to run it)*
- Designed with [tview](https://github.com/rivo/tview) - interactive widgets for terminal-based UI
- Task Note editor made with [femto](https://github.com/pgavlin/femto)  
- Datastore is [storm](https://github.com/asdine/storm) - a powerful toolkit for [BoltDB](https://github.com/etcd-io/bbolt)

### Contribute

If you fix a bug or want to add/improve a feature, 
and it's aligned with the focus (merging with ease) of this app, 
I will be glad to accept your PR. :) 

## :bulb: You may ask...

#### :question: Where is the data stored? Can I change the location?

By default, it will try to create a db file in you home directory. 

But as a geek, you may try to put it different location (e,g, in your dropbox for syncing).
In that case, just mention `DB_FILE` as an environment variable.  
```bash
DB_FILE=~/dropbox/geek-life/default.db geek-life
```
**UPDATE:** For Windows users, setting ENV variable is not so straight forward. 
So, added a flag `--db-file` or `-d` to specify DB file path from command line easily. 
 ```bash
geek-life --db-file=D:\a-writable-dir\tasks.db
```


#### :question: How can I suggest a feature?

Just [post an issue](https://github.com/ajaxray/geek-life/issues/new) describing your desired feature/enhancement 
and select `feature` label.

Also, incomplete features in the current roadmap will be found in issue list. 
You may :thumbsup: issues if you want to increase priority of a feature.

---
[![JetBrains Logo](media/jetbrains.png)](https://www.jetbrains.com/)  
Developed with [GoLand](https://www.jetbrains.com/go/).  
Thanks to [JetBrains](https://www.jetbrains.com/) for sponsoring [Licenses for Open Source Development](https://www.jetbrains.com/community/opensource/#support). 


---
### Footnotes 
1. In my Macbook Air, 1.6 GHz Dual-Core Intel Core i5, RAM: 8 GB 1600 MHz DDR3
2. Using [monakai](https://github.com/sickill/vim-monokai) color scheme for markdown syntax
---
> "This is the Book about which there is no doubt, a guidance for those conscious of Allah" - [Al-Quran](http://quran.com)

Commit message:

Include Apple Silicon user information in README
Added note about Apple Silicon support and fork.

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
    <img src="media/geek-life-logo.png" align="center" alt="Geek-life Logo">
</p>
<h1 align="center"> The CLI To-Do List / Task Manager for Geeks </h1>

<a href="https://www.producthunt.com/posts/geek-life?utm_source=badge-featured&utm_medium=badge&utm_souce=badge-geek-life" target="_blank"><img src="https://api.producthunt.com/widgets/embed-image/v1/featured.svg?post_id=205655&theme=light" alt="Geek-life - The To-do List / Task Manager for Geeks in command line! | Product Hunt Embed" style="width: 125px; height: 27px;" width="125px" height="27px" /></a>
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/ajaxray/geek-life?version=latest)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/ajaxray/geek-life)

:technologist: Developer / DevOps / Sysadmin? A command line hero?     
:computer: Live with the dark terminal?  
:memo: Think in Markdown?  

**Finally!** A full featured task manager for YOU! 

![Geek-life overview](media/geek-life_v1_static.png "Geek-life overview")
<a href="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ajaxray/geek-life/master/media/geek-life_v1.gif" target="_blank">Click to see it moving (GIF)</a>
 

### :crystal_ball: Highlights

- For ninjas - do things faster with keyboard shortcuts
- Markdown lovers, feel at :house:! You'll see markdown everywhere.
- Full featured (almost) - Projects, Tasks, due-dates, task notes...
- A <4MB app that takes <1% CPU and ~7MB memory <sup>1</sup> - how much lighter you can think?
- Task note editor with markdown syntax highlighting<sup>2</sup>
- Full mouse support

### :dart: Roadmap
- [x] Create Project
- [x] Delete Project
- [ ] Edit Project
- [x] Create Task (under project)
- [x] Set Task due date (as `yyyy-mm-dd`) with shortcut
- [x] Set Task due date with quick input buttons (today, +1 day, -1 day)
- [x] Update Task Title
- [x] Tasklist items should indicate status (done, pending, overdue) using colors 
- [x] Export Tasks (Copy title, dueDate and description to clipboard as Markdown)
- [ ] Pin Tasks
- [x] Shortcut for Adding new Project and Task
- [x] Global shortcuts for jumping to Projects or Tasks panel anytime
- [x] Cleanup all completed tasks of project
- [x] Task note editor should syntax highlight (markdown) and line numbers  
- [x] Status bar for common shortcuts
- [x] Status bar should display success/error message of actions
- [x] Status bar may display quick tips based on focused element
- [x] Dynamic lists 
    - Today - Due Today and overdue 
    - Tomorrow 
    - Upcoming - Due in next 7 days
    - Unscheduled - tasks without due date
- [ ] Integrations
    - todo.txt (coming soon...)
    - Google Tasks 
    - (Share your ideas)
- [ ] Time tracking

### :rocket: Ready for action (installing and running)

It's just a single binary file, **no external dependencies**. 
Just download the appropriate version of [executable from latest release](https://github.com/ajaxray/geek-life/releases) for your OS. 
Then rename and give it permission to execute.   
For example:
```bash
mv geek-life_linux-amd64 geek-life  
sudo chmod +x geek-life
./geek-life
```

I recommend installing it globally (to run from any directory of your system). It's easy, just put it in your systems $PATH directory.
```bash
sudo mv geek-life /usr/local/bin/geek-life
geek-life
```

Done! *Manage your tasks your way!* 

**For Apple Silicon Users:** [@mohammadazeemwani](https://github.com/mohammadazeemwani) is maintaining [this fork](https://github.com/mohammadazeemwani/geek-life/releases) for up-to-date Mac Silicon releases. 

## :keyboard: Keyboard shortcuts

Shortcut key for a pane/element will be **marked with underline**.

Some shortcuts are global, some are contextual. 
Contextual shortcuts will be applied according to focused pane/element.  
You'll see a currently focused pane bordered with double line. 
 

In case writing in a text input (e,g, new project/task, due date), you have to `Enter` to submit/save. 

| Context            | Shortcut            | Action                                               |
| ---                | :---:               | ---                                                  |
| Global             | `p`                 | Go to Project list                                   |
| Global             | `t`                 | Go to Task list                                      |
| Projects           | `n`                 | New Project                                          |
| Projects           | `↑`/`k`/`Shift+Tab` | Go up in project list                                |
| Projects           | `↓`/`j`/`Tab`       | Go down in project list                              |
| Tasks              | `n`                 | New Task                                             |
| Tasks              | `Esc`/`h`           | Go back to Projects Pane                             |
| Tasks              | `↑`/`k`/`Shift+Tab` | Go up in task list                                   |
| Tasks              | `↓`/`j`/`Tab`       | Go down in task list                                 |
| Tasks              | `c`                 | Clear completed tasks                                |
| Tasks              | `d`                 | Delete Project                                       |
| Task Detail        | `Esc`/`h`           | Go back to Tasks Pane                                |
| Task Detail        | `Space`             | Toggle task as done/pending                          |
| Task Detail        | `d`                 | Set Due date                                         |
| Task Detail        | `o`                 | Set Due date to today                                |
| Task Detail        | `+`                 | Due date plus 1                                      |
| Task Detail        | `-`                 | Due date minus 1                                     |
| Task Detail        | `↓`/`↑`             | Scroll Up/Down the note editor                       |
| Task Detail        | `e`                 | Activate note editor for modification                |
| Task Detail        | `v`                 | Edit task details in external editor (default `vim`) |
| Task Detail        | `r`                 | Rename Task Title                                    |
| Task Detail        | `x`                 | Export Task to clipboard                             |
| Active Note Editor | `Esc`               | Deactivate note editor and save content              |

**Tips about using shortcuts efficiently:**  

The interface has 3 primary panels
1. [**P**]rojects/Task lists
2. [**T**]asks of selected project or Tasklist
3. [**D**]etails/actions of selected Project or Task

The following diagram shows navigation shortcuts between the panels.
```
+------+----------------------+-----------------------+
|  P   |         T            |         D             |
|      |                      |                       |
|    Entr=>    ↓   ↑        Entr=>                    |
|      |       /   /          |                       |
|   <=Esc      j   k        <=Esc                     |
|      |                      |                       |
+------+----------------------+-----------------------+
```

So, what it's trying to visualize is -
- Selecting an item with `Enter` will move you to right panel. That means - 
    - Selecting a Project will load it's tasks and move to Tasks panel
    - Selecting a Task will load task detail and move to Detail panel
- Use `Esc` to move back to left panel. From Details to Tasks to Projects.
- To navigate a list (Project list or Task list), 
    - Use `↓` or `j` or `Tab` to go down
    - Use `↑` or `k` or `Shift+Tab` to go up  

Some More hints:
- If you are a vim user, think like -`j`/`k` for up/down list and `h` for go left 
- Think `Esc` as a "step back" - to previous pane in most cases.
- When you're in a list (Projects or Tasks), `Enter` will load currently selected item.
- After creating new Project, focus will automatically move to Tasks. Start adding tasks immediately by pressing `n`.   
- After creating new Task, focus will stay in "new task" input. So that you can add tasks quickly one after another. 
- After creating new Task, Press `Esc` when you're done creating tasks. 

## :hammer_and_wrench: Building blocks

- Made with :heart: and [golang](https://golang.org/) 1.14 *(you don't need golang to run it)*
- Designed with [tview](https://github.com/rivo/tview) - interactive widgets for terminal-based UI
- Task Note editor made with [femto](https://github.com/pgavlin/femto)  
- Datastore is [storm](https://github.com/asdine/storm) - a powerful toolkit for [BoltDB](https://github.com/etcd-io/bbolt)

### Contribute

If you fix a bug or want to add/improve a feature, 
and it's aligned with the focus (merging with ease) of this app, 
I will be glad to accept your PR. :) 

## :bulb: You may ask...

#### :question: Where is the data stored? Can I change the location?

By default, it will try to create a db file in you home directory. 

But as a geek, you may try to put it different location (e,g, in your dropbox for syncing).
In that case, just mention `DB_FILE` as an environment variable.  
```bash
DB_FILE=~/dropbox/geek-life/default.db geek-life
```
**UPDATE:** For Windows users, setting ENV variable is not so straight forward. 
So, added a flag `--db-file` or `-d` to specify DB file path from command line easily. 
 ```bash
geek-life --db-file=D:\a-writable-dir\tasks.db
```


#### :question: How can I suggest a feature?

Just [post an issue](https://github.com/ajaxray/geek-life/issues/new) describing your desired feature/enhancement 
and select `feature` label.

Also, incomplete features in the current roadmap will be found in issue list. 
You may :thumbsup: issues if you want to increase priority of a feature.

---
[![JetBrains Logo](media/jetbrains.png)](https://www.jetbrains.com/)  
Developed with [GoLand](https://www.jetbrains.com/go/).  
Thanks to [JetBrains](https://www.jetbrains.com/) for sponsoring [Licenses for Open Source Development](https://www.jetbrains.com/community/opensource/#support). 


---
### Footnotes 
1. In my Macbook Air, 1.6 GHz Dual-Core Intel Core i5, RAM: 8 GB 1600 MHz DDR3
2. Using [monakai](https://github.com/sickill/vim-monokai) color scheme for markdown syntax
---
> "This is the Book about which there is no doubt, a guidance for those conscious of Allah" - [Al-Quran](http://quran.com)
